---
title: "Secrets and ConfigMaps"
linkTitle: "Secrets and ConfigMaps"
weight: 3
type: docs
description: >
    Storing Key-Value Pairs and Confidential Data on Clusters
---


{{< alert color="success" title="TL;DR" >}}
- Generate Secrets from files and literals with `secretGenerator`
- Generate ConfigMaps from files and literals with `configMapGenerator`
- Rolling out changes to Secrets and ConfigMaps
{{< /alert >}}

## Motivation

The source of truth for Secret and ConfigMap Resources typically resides
somewhere else, such as a `.properties` file.  Apply offers native support
for generating both Secrets and ConfigMaps from other sources such as files and
literals.

Additionally, Secrets and ConfigMaps require rollouts to be performed
differently than for most other Resources in order for the changes to be
rolled out to Pods consuming them.

## Need for ConfigMaps
- A ConfigMap is an API object used to store non-confidential data in key-value pairs. Pods can consume ConfigMaps as environment variables, command-line arguments, or as configuration files in a volume.
- A ConfigMap allows you to decouple environment-specific configuration from your container images, so that your applications are easily portable.

## Need for Secrets
- Secrets are Kubernetes Objects that designed to hold sensitive data like Passwords, tokens, keys etc. Thus, reducing the risk of exposing confidential data.
- Storing confidential information in a Secret is safer and more flexible than putting it verbatim in a Pod definition or in a container image.

{{< alert color="success" title="Note" >}}
Check out the [References](../../../references) to know how to work with ConfigMaps and Secrets
{{< /alert >}}

## Generators

Secret and ConfigMap Resources can be generated by adding `secretGenerator`
or `configMapGenerator` entries to the `kustomization.yaml` file.

{{< alert color="warning" title="Important" >}}
The generated Resources name's will have suffixes that change when their data
changes.  See [Rollouts](#rollouts) for more on this.
{{< /alert >}}

### Generator Options

It is also possible to specify cross-cutting options for generated objects
using  `generatorOptions`.

```yaml
# kustomization.yaml
apiVersion: kustomize.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Kustomization
generatorOptions:
  # labels to add to all generated resources
  labels:
    kustomize.generated.resources: somevalue
  # annotations to add to all generated resources
  annotations:
    kustomize.generated.resource: somevalue
  # disableNameSuffixHash is true disables the default behavior of adding a
  # suffix to the names of generated resources that is a hash of
  # the resource contents.
  disableNameSuffixHash: true
```

## Rollouts

ConfigMap values are consumed by Pods as: environment variables, command line arguments and files.

This is important because Updating a ConfigMap will:

- immediately update the files mounted by *all* Pods consuming them
- not update the environment variables or command line arguments until the Pod is restarted

Typically users want to perform a rolling update of the ConfigMap changes to Pods as soon as
the ConfigMap changes are pushed.

Apply facilitates rolling updates for ConfigMaps by creating a new ConfigMap
for each change to the data.  Workloads (e.g. Deployments, StatefulSets, etc) are updated to point to a new
ConfigMap instead of the old one.  This allows the change to be gradually rolled the same way
other Pod Template changes are rolled out.

Each generated Resources name has a suffix appended by hashing the contents.  This approach ensures a new
ConfigMap is generated each time the contents is modified.

**Note:** Because the Resource names will contain a suffix, when looking for them with `kubectl get`,
their names will not match exactly what is specified in the kustomization.yaml file.